---
layout: post
title:  "Consistency is the key to exercise."
date:   2022-04-21 01:06:54 -0500
categories: blog
---

Everyone knows exercise has many benefits. These benefits are so numerous that it is virtually impossible to create an exhaustive list that covers them all. In fact, the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges (The coordinating body for the United Kingdom's Medical Colleges) has even called exercise a ["miracle cure"](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/21/upshot/why-you-should-exercise-no-not-to-lose-weight.html) based on a huge meta-analysis of chronic disease studies. (Unfortunately, some people view exercise mostly through the lens of weight loss, causing them to lose sight of the myriad other benefits.) 

Despite the many and highly varied reasons to exercise, it is common for people to struggle with actually exercising. People struggle with what gym to join, what equipment to buy, what routine to start, and much more. There are always new exercise programs and classes being marketed to consumers and going viral on social media. This all leads to a confusion, [analysis paralysis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Analysis_paralysis), and ultimately an inability to be consistent.

This leads us to the main point: When it comes to exercise, consistency is absolutely everything. Nothing else really matters. All other considerations exist to serve the one and only goal: consistency. Safety is of course also critical, but this follows logically from a dedication to consistency. Unsafe exercising will lead to injuries, and injuries prevent exercise.

Making consistency the one and only goal may shift the way people think about exercise. In practice, this means being extremely pragmatic about which exercise routine to select. This likely entails thinking in terms of the cost and time it takes to consistently exercise, and not so much about personal preference. It means being open minded.  For example, someone may have always had a negative view of running. But after thinking in terms of time and cost, they may come to the conclusion that running is the most pragmatic way to be consistent. In this theoretical example, the person should probably just commit to running despite their personal distaste for running. Executing consistently will result in improvements over time. As people get better at an activity, they tend to enjoy it or at least tolerate it.  People often underestimate their innate ability to adapt. But this can only be done with an absolute dedication to being consistent. To put this succinctly, enjoying the exercise, at least at first, is highly overrated in favor of just executing consistently. 